# Project 1: Software Requirements Specification Document

## Group Members

- [Javan Thomas](mailto:jthom482@uncc.edu)

## Revisions

| Version | Date | Description | Author | Reviewed By |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1.0 | 03/22/23 | Initial draft | [David Gary](mailto:dgary9@uncc.edu) | [David Gary](mailto:dgary@uncc.edu) |  
| 1.1 | 07/12/23 | Update group member email | [Javan Thomas](mailto:jthom482@uncc.edu) | [Javan Thomas](mailto:jthom482@uncc.edu) |
| 1.2 | 07/17/23 | Update introduction, requirements, use cases, user stories, and glossary | [Javan Thomas](mailto:jthom482@uncc.edu) | [Javan Thomas](mailto:jthom482@uncc.edu) |
| 1.3 | 07/17/23 | Updates requirements and introduction | [Javan Thomas](mailto:jthom482@uncc.edu) | [Javan Thomas](mailto:jthom482@uncc.edu) |

## Table of Contents

1. [Introduction](#introduction)
2. [Requirements](#requirements)
3. [Constraints](#constraints)
4. [Use Cases](#use-cases)
5. [User Stories](#user-stories)
6. [Glossary](#glossary)

## Introduction

This project is based on an ecommerce store which sells products to end-users. It will allow users to signup to enable them to purchase products. New and existing customers will be allowed to browse the catalog of products in order to make their purchases. This will allow users with disabilities, who are geographically displaced, or those short on time to make purchases in a convenient manner. It also will allow shopping past the normal "business" hours which are sometimes a nuisance.

## Requirements

- **REQ-1:** 
  - **Description:** User must be able to login to the system to make a purchase.
  - **Type:** Functional
  - **Priority:** 1
  - **Rationale:** User is required to login in order to access the full features of the ecommerce platform
  - **Testing:** User is able to fill out the form and dynamic content such as welcome screen can be displayed upon successful login.
- **REQ-2:** 
  - **Description:** User's information must be retained for during the session and for future access.
  - **Type:** Functional
  - **Priority:** 1
  - **Rationale:** When a user signs up for access to the site, their information must be retained for the current session and future access into the system.
  - **Testing:** User information is stored in database when signing up for access to website and retrieved when successfully logged in. A session cookie must be created for their current session.
- **REQ-3:** 
  - **Description:** User must be informed when an invalid username is entered into a form.
  - **Type:** Functional
  - **Priority:** 1
  - **Rationale:** Adding validation and error handling to HTML forms will prevent bad data from populating the database as well as protect against malicious attacks on the system. 
  - **Testing:** Testing against invalid characters and incomplete forms.
- **REQ-4:** 
  - **Description:** User must be able to select quantity of products from a dropdown and their total updated once an item is added to cart.
  - **Type:** Functional
  - **Priority:** 3
  - **Rationale:** Using dropdowns will prevent bad data from being processed since a user is required to select from a predetermined list of choices.
  - **Testing:** Upon completion, more data should be available for testing which means the database has more than the three initial values.
- **REQ-5:** 
  - **Description:** User must be able to select from a wide range of products.
  - **Type:** Functional
  - **Priority:** 3
  - **Rationale:** Supplying the user with more products will prevent the user from using other merchants to buy their products and boaster customer satisfaction.
  - **Testing:** Testing will comprise of validating that the database is populated with more than 3 products and the price and quantities are updated appropriately when selecting multiple products.

## Constraints

- Due to the scale and time constraints of this project, features such as pagination, tax assessments by state, payment method entry, and applying discounts to products at checkout are not enabled for this project.
- Only standard Python, HTML, CSS (mainly Bootstrap), and (some) JavaScript are used for this project. Libraries such as Angular or React are out of the scope of this project.

## Use Cases

- **UC-1:** 
  - **Description:** Signing up or logging in should allow user access to system to place orders.
  - **Actors:** End-user
  - **Preconditions:** The user must enter valid data into forms with no special characters or missing required data.
  - **Postconditions:** User is allowed to place an order after completion of either form type.
- **UC-2:** 
  - **Description:** Format of screen should change based on device being used to allow for better accessibility and readability.
  - **Actors:** End-user
  - **Preconditions:** The user must have an up-to-date browser that recognizes the most recent HTML standards and CSS capabilities.
  - **Postconditions:** User is presented a website that is readily available for their device.

## User Stories

- **US-JT1:** 
  - **Type of User:** End-user
  - **Description:** As an end-user, I should be able to login or sign up and my session should not end until I log off, keeping all relevant data and products active while I am using the system. When logged into the site, my cart should be updated appropriately based on the price and quantity of the product I have chosen. Upon checkout, my total should be accurate based on my selections.
- **US-JT2:** 
  - **Type of User:** Admin
  - **Description:** The system should not allow missing or invalid data to be entered into the forms due to the potential of malicious code corrupting the system. The database should also encrypt passwords to ensure customer data is protected. All data from the end-user should be checked against the standards such as no spaces or invalid characters for usernames and passwords, valid email formats, and correct length for passwords.

## Glossary

- **Term:** The term that is being defined. This should be a single word or phrase that is being defined.
  - **End-user:** The user of the system. Often referred to as the customer or consumer.
  - **Ecommerce:** An online marketplace that allows a user to buy or sell products.